#summary 2017 upgrade notes

If you are building your pre-2017 project against 2017 or later, you will likely receive errors.

This is because we made many small changes to method names to support Visual Basic and other CLS-compliant languages in .NET.

If you are building from-scratch projects or building from the source code provided with tradelink, you should not have any issues and can ignore this document.

Here are major changes/errors and how to fix in your project :

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

=== UIntDelegate could not be found ===

unsigned integers are not CLS compliant.

Rename all instances of UintDelegate to LongDelegate and you should be fine.

edit->replace->replace all

=== no overload for SOME_METHOD matches SOME_DELEGATE ===

unsigned integers were removed.   uints were used for order ids almost exclusively, and have been replaced with longs (int64s in .net).

rename all uint to long and these should go away.

edit->replace->replace all

=== Response does not contain a definition for Send_whatever ===

CLS compliance doesn't allow for events and methods to have similiar names.

do following renames :

|| match condition (on case) || replace with ||
||SendOrder || SendOrderEvent ||
||SendCancel || SendCancelEvent ||
||SendDebug || SendDebugEvent ||
||SendIndicators || SendIndicatorsEvent ||
||SendMessage || SendMessageEvent ||
||SendBasket || SendBasketEvent ||

edit->replace->replace all (match case)

=== Broker does not contain a definition for sendOrder ===

broker now has single SendOrder which corresponds to Order delegate.

If you need to get a return message indicating an error from the order, call SendOrderStatus.

if you need to submit account name, call SendOrderAccount.

edit->replace->replace all (match case)